README.md, before:

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/action_policy-graphql.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/action_policy-graphql)
![Build](https://github.com/palkan/action_policy-graphql/workflows/Build/badge.svg)
![JRuby Build](https://github.com/palkan/action_policy-graphql/workflows/JRuby%20Build/badge.svg)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-link-brightgreen.svg)](https://actionpolicy.evilmartians.io/#/graphql)

# Action Policy GraphQL

This gem provides an integration for using [Action Policy](https://github.com/palkan/action_policy) as an authorization framework for GraphQL applications (built with [`graphql` ruby gem](https://graphql-ruby.org)).

This integration includes the following features:

- Fields & mutations authorization
- List and connections scoping
- [**Exposing permissions/authorization rules in the API**](https://evilmartians.com/chronicles/exposing-permissions-in-graphql-apis-with-action-policy).

📑 [Documentation](https://actionpolicy.evilmartians.io/#/graphql)

<a href="https://evilmartians.com/?utm_source=action_policy-graphql">
<img src="https://evilmartians.com/badges/sponsored-by-evil-martians.svg" alt="Sponsored by Evil Martians" width="236" height="54"></a>

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem "action_policy-graphql"
```

## Usage

**NOTE:** this is a quick overview of the functionality provided by the gem. For more information see the [documentation](https://actionpolicy.evilmartians.io/#/graphql).

To start using Action Policy in GraphQL-related code, you need to enhance your base classes with `ActionPolicy::GraphQL::Behaviour`:

```ruby
# For fields authorization, lists scoping and rules exposing
class Types::BaseObject < GraphQL::Schema::Object
  include ActionPolicy::GraphQL::Behaviour
end

# For using authorization helpers in mutations
class Types::BaseMutation < GraphQL::Schema::Mutation
  include ActionPolicy::GraphQL::Behaviour
end

# For using authorization helpers in resolvers
class Types::BaseResolver < GraphQL::Schema::Resolver
  include ActionPolicy::GraphQL::Behaviour
end
```

### `authorize: *`

You can add authorization to the fields by specifying the `authorize: *` option:

```ruby
field :home, Home, null: false, authorize: true do
  argument :id, ID, required: true
end

# field resolver method
def home(id:)
  Home.find(id)
end
```

The code above is equal to:

```ruby
field :home, Home, null: false do
  argument :id, ID, required: true
end

def home(id:)
  Home.find(id).tap { |home| authorize! home, to: :show? }
end
```

You can customize the authorization options, e.g. `authorize: {to: :preview?, with: CustomPolicy}`.

If you don't want to raise an exception but return a null instead, you should set a `raise: false` option.

### `authorized_scope: *`

You can add `authorized_scope: true` option to the field (list or _connection_ field) to
apply the corresponding policy rules to the data:

```ruby
class CityType < ::Common::Graphql::Type
  # It would automatically apply the relation scope from the EventPolicy to
  # the relation (city.events)
  field :events, EventType.connection_type, null: false, authorized_scope: true

  # you can specify the policy explicitly
  field :events, EventType.connection_type, null: false, authorized_scope: {with: CustomEventPolicy}
end
```

**NOTE:** you cannot use `authorize: *` and `authorized_scope: *` at the same time but you can combine `preauthorize: *` or `authorize_field: *` with `authorized_scope: *`.

### `preauthorize: *`

If you want to perform authorization before resolving the field value, you can use `preauthorize: *` option:

```ruby
field :homes, [Home], null: false, preauthorize: {with: HomePolicy}

def homes
  Home.all
end
```

The code above is equal to:

```ruby
field :homes, [Home], null: false

def homes
  authorize! "homes", to: :index?, with: HomePolicy
  Home.all
end
```

**NOTE:** we pass the field's name as the `record` to the policy rule. We assume that preauthorization rules do not depend on
the record itself and pass the field's name for debugging purposes only.

You can customize the authorization options, e.g. `preauthorize: {to: :preview?, with: CustomPolicy}`.

**NOTE:** unlike `authorize: *` you MUST specify the `with: SomePolicy` option.
The default authorization rule depends on the type of the field:

- for lists we use `index?` (configured by `ActionPolicy::GraphQL.default_preauthorize_list_rule` parameter)
- for _singleton_ fields we use `show?` (configured by `ActionPolicy::GraphQL.default_preauthorize_node_rule` parameter)

### `authorize_field: *`

If you want to perform authorization before resolving the field value _on the base of the upper object_, you can use `authorize_field: *` option:

```ruby
field :homes, Home, null: false, authorize_field: true

def homes
  Home.all
end
```

The code above is equal to:

```ruby
field :homes, [Home], null: false

def homes
  authorize! object, to: :homes?
  Home.all
end
```
By default we use `#{underscored_field_name}?` authorization rule.

You can customize the authorization options, e.g. `authorize_field: {to: :preview?, with: CustomPolicy}`.

### `expose_authorization_rules`

You can add permissions/authorization exposing fields to "tell" clients which actions could be performed against the object or not (and why).

For example:

```ruby
class ProfileType < ::Common::Graphql::Type
  # Adds can_edit, can_destroy fields with
  # AuthorizationResult type.

  # NOTE: prefix "can_" is used by default, no need to specify it explicitly
  expose_authorization_rules :edit?, :destroy?, prefix: "can_"
end
```

Then the client could perform the following query:

```gql
{
  post(id: $id) {
    canEdit {
      # (bool) true|false; not null
      value
      # top-level decline message ("Not authorized" by default); null if value is true
      message
      # detailed information about the decline reasons; null if value is true
      reasons {
        details # JSON-encoded hash of the failure reasons (e.g., {"event" => [:seats_available?]})
        fullMessages # Array of human-readable reasons (e.g., ["This event is sold out"])
      }
    }

    canDestroy {
      # ...
    }
  }
}
```

You can specify a custom field name as well (only for a single rule):

```ruby
class ProfileType < ::Common::Graphql::Type
  # Adds can_create_post field.

  expose_authorization_rules :create?, with: PostPolicy, field_name: "can_create_post"
end
```

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/palkan/action_policy-graphql.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Fix mutations authorization code. Add deprecation

README.md, after:

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/action_policy-graphql.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/action_policy-graphql)
![Build](https://github.com/palkan/action_policy-graphql/workflows/Build/badge.svg)
![JRuby Build](https://github.com/palkan/action_policy-graphql/workflows/JRuby%20Build/badge.svg)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-link-brightgreen.svg)](https://actionpolicy.evilmartians.io/#/graphql)

# Action Policy GraphQL

This gem provides an integration for using [Action Policy](https://github.com/palkan/action_policy) as an authorization framework for GraphQL applications (built with [`graphql` ruby gem](https://graphql-ruby.org)).

This integration includes the following features:

- Fields & mutations authorization
- List and connections scoping
- [**Exposing permissions/authorization rules in the API**](https://evilmartians.com/chronicles/exposing-permissions-in-graphql-apis-with-action-policy).

📑 [Documentation](https://actionpolicy.evilmartians.io/#/graphql)

<a href="https://evilmartians.com/?utm_source=action_policy-graphql">
<img src="https://evilmartians.com/badges/sponsored-by-evil-martians.svg" alt="Sponsored by Evil Martians" width="236" height="54"></a>

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem "action_policy-graphql"
```

## Usage

**NOTE:** this is a quick overview of the functionality provided by the gem. For more information see the [documentation](https://actionpolicy.evilmartians.io/#/graphql).

To start using Action Policy in GraphQL-related code, you need to enhance your base classes with `ActionPolicy::GraphQL::Behaviour`:

```ruby
# For fields authorization, lists scoping and rules exposing
class Types::BaseObject < GraphQL::Schema::Object
  include ActionPolicy::GraphQL::Behaviour
end

# For using authorization helpers in mutations
class Types::BaseMutation < GraphQL::Schema::Mutation
  include ActionPolicy::GraphQL::Behaviour
end

# For using authorization helpers in resolvers
class Types::BaseResolver < GraphQL::Schema::Resolver
  include ActionPolicy::GraphQL::Behaviour
end
```

### `authorize: *`

You can add authorization to the fields by specifying the `authorize: *` option:

```ruby
field :home, Home, null: false, authorize: true do
  argument :id, ID, required: true
end

# field resolver method
def home(id:)
  Home.find(id)
end
```

The code above is equal to:

```ruby
field :home, Home, null: false do
  argument :id, ID, required: true
end

def home(id:)
  Home.find(id).tap { |home| authorize! home, to: :show? }
end
```

You can customize the authorization options, e.g. `authorize: {to: :preview?, with: CustomPolicy}`.

If you don't want to raise an exception but return a null instead, you should set a `raise: false` option.

Note: it does not make too much sense to use `authorize` in mutations since it's checking authorization rules after mutation is executed. Therefore `authorize` marked as deprecated when used in mutations and will raise error in future releases.

### `authorized_scope: *`

You can add `authorized_scope: true` option to the field (list or _connection_ field) to
apply the corresponding policy rules to the data:

```ruby
class CityType < ::Common::Graphql::Type
  # It would automatically apply the relation scope from the EventPolicy to
  # the relation (city.events)
  field :events, EventType.connection_type, null: false, authorized_scope: true

  # you can specify the policy explicitly
  field :events, EventType.connection_type, null: false, authorized_scope: {with: CustomEventPolicy}
end
```

**NOTE:** you cannot use `authorize: *` and `authorized_scope: *` at the same time but you can combine `preauthorize: *` or `authorize_field: *` with `authorized_scope: *`.

### `preauthorize: *`

If you want to perform authorization before resolving the field value, you can use `preauthorize: *` option:

```ruby
field :homes, [Home], null: false, preauthorize: {with: HomePolicy}

def homes
  Home.all
end
```

The code above is equal to:

```ruby
field :homes, [Home], null: false

def homes
  authorize! "homes", to: :index?, with: HomePolicy
  Home.all
end
```

**NOTE:** we pass the field's name as the `record` to the policy rule. We assume that preauthorization rules do not depend on
the record itself and pass the field's name for debugging purposes only.

You can customize the authorization options, e.g. `preauthorize: {to: :preview?, with: CustomPolicy}`.

**NOTE:** unlike `authorize: *` you MUST specify the `with: SomePolicy` option.
The default authorization rule depends on the type of the field:

- for lists we use `index?` (configured by `ActionPolicy::GraphQL.default_preauthorize_list_rule` parameter)
- for _singleton_ fields we use `show?` (configured by `ActionPolicy::GraphQL.default_preauthorize_node_rule` parameter)

### `authorize_field: *`

If you want to perform authorization before resolving the field value _on the base of the upper object_, you can use `authorize_field: *` option:

```ruby
field :homes, Home, null: false, authorize_field: true

def homes
  Home.all
end
```

The code above is equal to:

```ruby
field :homes, [Home], null: false

def homes
  authorize! object, to: :homes?
  Home.all
end
```
By default we use `#{underscored_field_name}?` authorization rule.

You can customize the authorization options, e.g. `authorize_field: {to: :preview?, with: CustomPolicy}`.

### `expose_authorization_rules`

You can add permissions/authorization exposing fields to "tell" clients which actions could be performed against the object or not (and why).

For example:

```ruby
class ProfileType < ::Common::Graphql::Type
  # Adds can_edit, can_destroy fields with
  # AuthorizationResult type.

  # NOTE: prefix "can_" is used by default, no need to specify it explicitly
  expose_authorization_rules :edit?, :destroy?, prefix: "can_"
end
```

Then the client could perform the following query:

```gql
{
  post(id: $id) {
    canEdit {
      # (bool) true|false; not null
      value
      # top-level decline message ("Not authorized" by default); null if value is true
      message
      # detailed information about the decline reasons; null if value is true
      reasons {
        details # JSON-encoded hash of the failure reasons (e.g., {"event" => [:seats_available?]})
        fullMessages # Array of human-readable reasons (e.g., ["This event is sold out"])
      }
    }

    canDestroy {
      # ...
    }
  }
}
```

You can specify a custom field name as well (only for a single rule):

```ruby
class ProfileType < ::Common::Graphql::Type
  # Adds can_create_post field.

  expose_authorization_rules :create?, with: PostPolicy, field_name: "can_create_post"
end
```

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/palkan/action_policy-graphql.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
